**ToDoListTest**

**What is this repository for?**
This repository contains a Selenium Cucumber-Junit Test Framework for testing the functionality of a lightweight to-do list web application. The framework is designed following Behavior Driven Development (BDD) principles and includes Cucumber Junit Automation Framework. It generates Cucumber Pretty reports.

**Short Description of Scenarios**
Positive Scenarios:
Scenario: 01. Verify that user is able to launch To do list application successfully
Scenario: 02. Verify that user is able to add a task successfully 
Scenario: 03. Verify that user is able to close a task by pressing X button 
Scenario: 04. Verify that user is able to mark or un mark a task a completed

Negative Scenarios:
Scenario: 05. Verify that User should get an error whern Accessing an invalid URL
Scenario: 06. Verify that user should not be able to add a empty  task 
Scenario: 07. Verify that when user try to edit an existing task with empty value then user should be getting an error message
Scenario: 08. Verify that when user try to add a task with leading spaces then application should add the task by removing all leading and trailing spaces

**Dependencies Used (Also can be referred in pom.xml)**

**Cucumber Dependencies:**
- io.cucumber:cucumber-java:6.10.4
- io.cucumber:cucumber-jvm-deps:1.0.6 (provided)
- io.cucumber:cucumber-junit:6.10.4 (test)

**Junit Dependencies:**
- junit:junit:4.13.2 (test)

**Selenium Dependencies:**
- org.seleniumhq.selenium:selenium-java:4.0.0-beta-3
- org.seleniumhq.selenium:selenium-chrome-driver:4.0.0-beta-3

**ToDoList Automation Framework Details**
The ToDoList automation framework is designed to test the ToDoList web application using BDD (Behavior-Driven Development) with Cucumber, Page Object Pattern, and Page Factory Design Pattern.

**BDD (Cucumber)**
- This framework follows the BDD approach, allowing easy collaboration between stakeholders and developers.
- Feature files express scenarios in natural language using Gherkin syntax.

**Page Object Pattern (POM)**
- The Page Object Pattern is implemented to enhance code reusability and maintainability.
- Each web page is represented by a corresponding Page Object, encapsulating the interaction logic.

**Page Factory Pattern (PFP)**
- Page Factory is utilized to initialize WebElement elements in the Page Objects, enhancing performance and readability.

**Reporting**
- Default HTML reports generated by the Cucumber framework provide comprehensive test execution reports.
- Reports include details about passed and failed scenarios, step definitions, and feature execution times.

**Technology Stack**
-Language:Java
-Build Tool:Maven
-Automation API:Selenium WebDriver
-Browser:Chrome (Version 120)
-Chrome Driver:Must be installed before running the project
-Source Code Management: Git repository hosted in Github

**Tags used in the feature file:**
@ToDoListTest tag is assigned to all relevant scenarios or the complete feature file with total 8 scenarios for easy categorization and execution.
@PositiveScenario tag is used in multiple scenarios, this tag categorizes positive scenarios that are expected to succeed without errors.
@NegativeScenario tag is used in multiple scenarios, this tag categorizes negative scenarios that are expected to fail or encounter errors.
We can also add multiple tags such as @Priority1 or @SmokeTest to set priority test scenarios or run as smoke tests.

**Setup Instructions**
1. Before running the tests, ensure that you have Java (JDK) and Maven installed. Clone the repository using the following command using bash:
	git clone https://github.com/<your_username>/ToDoListTest.git
	cd ToDoListTest
	or
	git clone https://github.com/sanashaikhr/Sana-To-Do-List/tree/main  

2. Install Chrome Driver:
	Make sure Chrome browser is installed on your machine.
	Download the appropriate ChromeDriver version compatible with Chrome 120 or ensure that the Chrome browser version matches the ChromeDriver version.
	Add the ChromeDriver executable to your system's PATH.

3. Run the Tests using:
	Maven:
	Run the following command to execute Maven and get complete reporting (Pretty Cucumber Reporting):
	```bash
	mvn clean install
	```

	Junit:
	Run the tests as Junit tests after selecting the runner class (TestRunIT.java).

	Cucumber:
	Run the following command to execute Maven with specific tags for complete reporting (Pretty Cucumber Reporting):
	```bash
	mvn clean install -Dcucumber.options="--tags @SearchFullRegression"

4. View Reports:
   Open the `target/cucumber-reports/index.html` file in a web browser to view the test execution reports. Also you can check surefire reports.

Happy testing!
